#LyX 1.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 218
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\def \Tab {\thinspace$\langle\hbox{Tab}\rangle$\thinspace}
\end_preamble
\language english
\inputencoding latin1
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage widemarginsa4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

ROX-Filer User Manual
\newline 

\latex latex 

\backslash 
medskip
\backslash 
large{<http://rox.sourceforge.net>}
\layout Author

Thomas Leonard,
\newline 
tal197@users.sourceforge.net
\layout Date


\latex latex 

\backslash 
today
\layout Abstract

ROX-Filer is a graphical file manger for the X Window System.
 Its user interface is based on the RISC OS filer and it supports similar
 features such as application directories and drag-and-drop loading and
 saving of files.
 The filer can also act as a pinboard, allowing you to pin frequently used
 files onto the desktop background.
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \tableofcontents{}

\end_inset 


\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Standard

ROX-Filer is a simple and easy to use graphical file manager for X11 ---
 the windowing system used on Unix and Unix-like operating systems.
 It is also the core component of the ROX Desktop
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{ROX}

\end_inset 

.
 Many of the filer's features were inspired by RISC OS
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{RISC OS}

\end_inset 

.
 `ROX' stands for `RISC OS--On--X'.
\layout Subsection

Features
\layout Description

XDND A common drag-and-drop protocol used, for example, by the GNOME desktop
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{GNOME}

\end_inset 

.
 This allows data to be loaded into an application by dragging it from a
 filer window to a program.
 The full specification is given in 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{DND}

\end_inset 

.
\layout Description

XDS An extension to XDND that allows applications to save data by dragging
 an icon back to a filer window.
 The full specification is given in 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{XDS}

\end_inset 

.
\layout Description

Choices A simple, but flexible, system for managing user choices.
 See 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Choices}

\end_inset 

 for details.
\layout Description

Application\SpecialChar ~
directories Self contained relocatable applications, where installati
on is as simple as copying it to where you want it and uninstalling it is
 just a matter of deleting a directory.
 Described later in this documentation.
\layout Description

Thumbnails The filer can be made to display image files by using the image
 itself for the icon, instead of a generic `this-is-an-image' icon.
 Very useful for organising a directory full of photos!
\layout Section

Conditions
\layout Standard

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
 under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
 Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
 any later version.
\layout Standard

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
 ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
 FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
 See the GNU General Public License for more details.
\layout Standard

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
 with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA, 02111-1307, USA.
\layout Section

Compiling
\layout Standard

If you've just got hold of the filer by downloading the source archive then
 you'll need to compile it before you can use it.
 If you downloaded and installed a binary package, or if ROX-Filer was included
 with your system, then you can skip this section.
 If you got here by clicking on the `i' symbol in a filer window, or if
 typing `rox' at a shell prompt works, then you don't need to compile.
\layout Standard

To compile, you will need the following:
\layout Itemize

Unix or Linux (root access is not required),
\layout Itemize

The X Window system (supplied as standard on all modern systems),
\layout Itemize

GTK+ 1.2.0 or later (libraries and headers) --- get the latest version from
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{GTK+}

\end_inset 

,
\layout Itemize

A C compiler, such as `gcc' (standard on most systems).
\layout Standard

All of the above are standard on most modern Linux distributions.
 To check which version of GTK+ you have installed, run the 
\family typewriter 
gtk-config
\family default 
 command, like this (
\family typewriter 
$
\family default 
 is the shell prompt):
\layout LyX-Code

$ gtk-config --version
\layout LyX-Code

1.2.8
\layout Standard

Due to bugs in earlier versions, GTK+ 1.2.8 is strongly recommended.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
noindent
\latex default 
 To compile:
\layout Enumerate

The filer needs some shared files to work --- icons for the various file
 types, rules for determining file types and default run actions.
 These are installed by the `rox-base' package.
 Install rox-base (from 
\family typewriter 
http://rox.sourceforge.net
\family default 
) now if you haven't done so already.
\layout Enumerate

Change to the directory containing the ROX-Filer subdirectory.
\layout Enumerate

Run the `
\family typewriter 
install.sh
\family default 
' script, like this:
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code

$ ./install.sh
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

ROX-Filer will perform various checks to find out what kind of system it
 is being run on and will then compile.
 If it doesn't work then please e-mail me and complain! Tell me what kind
 of system you have and what errors were reported.
 If you manage to fix the problem yourself then please e-mail me the fix.
\begin_deeper 
\layout Standard

The executable file is stored inside the ROX-Filer directory in a different
 subdirectory for each platform.
 Therefore, you can compile the same application on several different types
 of machine and then run it from any of them using the AppRun script.
 This is particularly useful in a network environment.
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

Once the filer has compiled you will be asked where you want to install
 it.
 If you want to do a system-wide installation as root, you may want to stop
 here, su to root and rerun the install script.
\begin_deeper 
\layout Standard

If you don't have the root password then don't worry --- just follow the
 instructions for installing into your home directory.
 
\end_deeper 
\layout Standard

You can now run the filer by running the `rox' script without any options,
 like this:
\layout LyX-Code

$ rox
\layout Standard

A window should appear and display the contents of the current directory.
\layout Standard

If you installed the script into your home directory then you may need to
 set your PATH environment variable so that the shell can find it.
 For example, if you installed it into a directory called `
\family typewriter 
bin
\family default 
' in your home directory, use this:
\layout LyX-Code

$ PATH=${HOME}/bin:${PATH}; export PATH
\layout Standard

or (if you are using the 
\noun on 
csh(1)
\noun default 
 shell):
\layout LyX-Code

$ setenv PATH ${HOME}/bin:${PATH}
\layout LyX-Code

$ rehash
\layout Section

Invoking
\layout Standard

By default, ROX-Filer will start by displaying the current directory.
 You can get it to display other directories instead by listing them after
 the command:
\layout LyX-Code

$ rox /home /usr /usr/local
\layout Standard

You can also use it to open files, like this:
\layout LyX-Code

$ rox README
\layout Standard

The filer supports various options; use `
\family typewriter 
-h
\family default 
' for a list.
 All options have long and short forms (eg `
\family typewriter 
-h
\family default 
' and `
\family typewriter 
--help
\family default 
') --- although on some systems you can only use the short versions.
\layout Standard

Note that if the same version of the filer is already running on this machine
 then, by default, it will be used to open the directories and the new copy
 will exit immediately.
 You can override this (perhaps because the old copy has stopped responding
 for some reason) using the `
\family typewriter 
--new
\family default 
' option.
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{run_pin}

\end_inset 

Pinboard support
\layout Standard

If you want the filer to manage your desktop background then you use the
 
\family typewriter 
--pinboard
\family default 
 option and supply a name for the pinboard, eg:
\layout LyX-Code

$ rox --pinboard=MyPinboard
\layout Standard

The pinboard configuration is saved in `
\emph on 
<Choices>/ROX-Filer/pb_MyPinboard
\emph default 
' as soon as you change it in some way (for example, by dropping a file
 onto the background).
 You can have as many pinboards as you like and switch between them by running
 rox again, eg:
\layout LyX-Code

$ rox --pinboard=MyOtherPinboard
\layout Standard

To turn off the pinboard again, set the name to an empty string:
\layout LyX-Code

$ rox --pinboard=
\layout Standard

See section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{winman}

\end_inset 

 if you have trouble getting the icons to display correctly.
 The pinboard may also be turned on and off by locating `ROX-Filer' in a
 filer window and choosing `Enable pinboard' or `Disable pinboard' from
 the menu.
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{run_pan}

\end_inset 

Panels
\layout Standard

Panels work just like the pinboard.
 You can create a panel on any side of the screen by using the options 
\family typewriter 
--left
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
--right,
\family default 
 
\family typewriter 
--top
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
--bottom
\family default 
, depending on which side of the screen the panel should appear on.
 On some systems, the short (one letter) form of the options must be used.
 For example, to create a panel along the bottom edge of the screen:
\layout LyX-Code

$ rox -b=MyPanel
\layout Standard

The panel should be displayed in a window without a title bar.
 If this does not work then see section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{winman}

\end_inset 

 for some ideas.
 You can drag files onto either side of the panel to add them.
 Icons can be repositioned by dragging them with the middle mouse button.
 Changes to the panel are automatically saved to '
\emph on 
<Choices>/ROX-Filer/pan_MyPanel
\emph default 
'.
 As with the pinboard, you can switch between panel configurations simply
 by running rox again with a different panel name.
 Specify a blank name to remove the panel.
\layout LyX-Code

$ rox --bottom=MyOtherPanel
\layout LyX-Code

$ rox --bottom=
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{winman}

\end_inset 

Window manager notes
\layout Standard

You may have to play around with your window manager a bit to get the pinboard
 icons and panels to display correctly (eg, without borders and underneath
 all other windows).
 In particular, try setting the stacking level / depth to low (or a negative
 value).
 Make sure any 'Keep transients above other windows' type options are turned
 off!
\layout Standard

In order for the filer to receive mouse clicks on the background (used for
 the pinboard support) you need a GNOME-compliant window manager.
 To see if your window manager supports this, try clicking the right mouse
 button on an unused area of the background.
 If you get the pinboard menu, all is well.
\layout Subsubsection

Sawfish / sawmill
\layout Standard

Sawfish trys to guess whether you are using GNOME at start-up and only provides
 support if so.
 You need to add the line `
\family typewriter 
(require 'gnome)
\family default 
' to your 
\family typewriter 
.sawfishrc
\family default 
 file (see the sawfish manual for more details).
\layout Subsubsection

IceWM
\layout Standard

Paste these configuration settings into `~/.icewm/preferences':
\layout LyX-Code

# Manage root window (EXPERIMENTAL - normally enabled!)
\layout LyX-Code

GrabRootWindow=1 # 0/1
\layout LyX-Code

# Bitmask of root window button click to use in window manager
\layout LyX-Code

UseRootButtons=3 # [0-255]
\layout LyX-Code

# Desktop mouse-button click to show the menu
\layout LyX-Code

DesktopWinMenuButton=1 # [0-20]
\layout LyX-Code

# Desktop mouse-button click to show the window list
\layout LyX-Code

DesktopWinListButton=2 # [0-5]
\layout LyX-Code

# Desktop mouse-button click to show the window list menu
\layout LyX-Code

DesktopMenuButton=0 # [0-20] 
\layout Standard

Paste these into `~/.icewm/winoptions':
\layout LyX-Code

# ROX-Filer pinboard and panel
\layout LyX-Code

ROX-Filer.icon: folder
\layout LyX-Code

ROX-Panel.layer: Dock
\layout LyX-Code

ROX-Panel.doNotCover: 1
\layout LyX-Code

ROX-Panel.ignoreWinList: 1
\layout LyX-Code

ROX-Panel.ignoreTaskBar: 1
\layout LyX-Code

ROX-Panel.ignoreQuickSwitch: 1
\layout LyX-Code

ROX-Pinboard.layer: Below
\layout LyX-Code

ROX-Pinboard.ignoreWinList: 1
\layout LyX-Code

ROX-Pinboard.ignoreTaskBar: 1
\layout LyX-Code

ROX-Pinboard.ignoreQuickSwitch: 1
\layout LyX-Code

ROX-Filer.layer: Normal
\layout Standard

Restart IceWM and the filer for the new settings to take effect.
\layout Subsubsection

Others
\layout Standard

If all else fails, try running rox with the `
\family typewriter 
-n
\family default 
' and `
\family typewriter 
-o
\family default 
' options; this overrides window manager control of the icons altogether
 (
\family typewriter 
-n
\family default 
 forces the filer to start a new copy).
\layout Subsection

Running as root
\layout Standard

If you run the filer as the `root' user then the filer will display a message
 at the top of each window to remind you.
 The root user has permission to access or change any file in the system,
 so be very careful when using the filer like this.
\layout Standard

Normally, you should log in as an ordinary user and only change to root
 when you need to.
 You can create a simple script which runs the filer as root --- something
 like this:
\layout LyX-Code

#!/bin/sh
\layout LyX-Code

su -m -c "rox $*"
\layout Standard

Then, you can get a root filer window by simply running the script and entering
 the root password.
 Remember, any file operations you perform and any programs you run from
 these windows will run as root too! Be careful!
\layout Standard

You may find that the X server won't allow root (or other users) to connect.
 Reading the manual pages for `
\family typewriter 
xauth
\family default 
' and `
\family typewriter 
xhost
\family default 
' may give you some hints, but it varies between systems (which is why this
 isn't built in to the filer!).
\layout Subsection

Full list of command-line options
\layout Standard

The full list of options is:
\layout Description

-b,\SpecialChar ~
--bottom=PANEL open PANEL as a bottom-edge panel
\layout Description

-d,\SpecialChar ~
--dir=DIR open DIR as directory (not as an application, even if it looks
 like one)
\layout Description

-h,\SpecialChar ~
--help display help about the various options
\layout Description

-l,\SpecialChar ~
--left=PANEL open PANEL as a left-edge panel
\layout Description

-m,\SpecialChar ~
--mime-type=FILE print MIME type of FILE and exit
\layout Description

-n,\SpecialChar ~
--new start a new filer, even if one already seems to be running
\layout Description

-o,\SpecialChar ~
--override override window manager control of panels
\layout Description

-p,\SpecialChar ~
--pinboard=PIN use pinboard PIN as the pinboard
\layout Description

-r,\SpecialChar ~
--right=PANEL open PANEL as a right-edge panel
\layout Description

-s,\SpecialChar ~
--show=FILE open a directory showing FILE
\layout Description

-t,\SpecialChar ~
--top=PANEL open PANEL as a top-edge panel
\layout Description

-u,\SpecialChar ~
--user show user name in each window
\layout Description

-x,\SpecialChar ~
--examine=FILE FILE has changed --- re-examine it
\layout Description

-v,\SpecialChar ~
--version display the version information and exit
\layout Section

Mouse button and key bindings
\layout Standard

Quick start:
\layout Itemize

Click the left
\begin_float footnote 
\layout Standard

This documentation assumes that button--1 is the left button, button--2
 is the middle button and button--3 is the right button.
 This is not always the case --- for example, in a left-handed setup.
\end_float 
 mouse button to open files and directories.
\layout Itemize

Click the right button to get a menu.
 Click over a file to perform an action on that file.
\layout Itemize

Drag files between windows to copy (left button) or move (middle button)
 them.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
noindent 
\latex default 
By default, the mouse button bindings are designed to fit in with X conventions.
 However, the behaviour is highly configurable --- have a play in the Options
 window if you don't like the normal settings.
 The normal settings behave as follows:
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
medskip
\layout Standard


\begin_inset  Tabular
<lyxtabular version="2" rows="15" columns="2">
<features rotate="false" islongtable="false" endhead="0" endfirsthead="0" endfoot="0" endlastfoot="0">
<column alignment="left" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="false" width="3.8cm" special="">
<column alignment="left" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="true" width="9.5cm" special="">
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Key or mouse button
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Action
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Left button click  
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Open the file or directory clicked on.Hold down Ctrl to select things instead
 of opening them.Hold down Shift to look inside applications, treat files
 as text, follow symlinks or mount devices.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Middle button click
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Same as left click, but open a directory in a new window or close the viewer
 when opening a file.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Right button click
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Open the main menu.
 Hold down Ctrl while clicking to go directly to the Selection submenu.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Drag an item  (left mouse button)
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Copy the file(s) to the destination (an application or another filer window).Hold
 down Shift to move the file, or Ctrl+Shift to create a symbolic link.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Drag an item (middle mouse button)
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

As above, but always moves rather than copying or symlinking.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Drag (not over an item)  
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Select a group of items by dragging a box around them.
 With the left mouse button, only the filesin the box will be selected.
 If you hold down Ctrl then the boxed items are added to the selection.If
 you use the middle button then the boxed items switch between being selected
 and unselected.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Double-click background
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Resize the window to a sensible size.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Backspace
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Change to viewing the parent directory.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Cursor keys
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Move the cursor around.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Page Up, Page Down
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Move up and down in steps of ten rows at a time.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Home, End
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Move to the first/last entry in the directory.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Return
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Acts like clicking on the file.
 You may hold down Shift for other effects, as with clicking.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Spacebar
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Toggles the item under the cursor between being selected and unselected,
 and moves to the next item.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Tab, Shift+Tab
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Moves the cursor to the next/previous selected item.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
</lyxtabular>

\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
medskip
\backslash 
noindent 
\latex default 
Other keys can easily be defined by opening the menu, moving the pointer
 over the item you want to use and pressing a key.
 The key will appear in the menu and can be used from then on.
 Key bindings are automatically saved when the filer quits.
\layout Section

The selection
\layout Standard

While items are selected in a ROX-Filer window the filer has the global
 selection.
 You can then paste into another window to get the pathnames of the selected
 files.
 For example, if you want to load a file into an application that doesn't
 support drag-and-drop:
\layout Enumerate

Open the application's `Open' dialog box.
\layout Enumerate

Ctrl-click on the file in ROX-Filer to select it.
\layout Enumerate

Click the middle button in the filename box in the application to paste
 the name in.
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec: Toolbar}

\end_inset 

The toolbar
\layout Standard

By default, each window has a toolbar along the top.
 You can disable this (or make it larger) from the Options window, as well
 as set which tools appear on the toolbar.
 Normally, you should click with the left mouse button (1).
 However, many tools can perform a related function if clicked on with buttons
 2 or 3 (middle or right).
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset  Tabular
<lyxtabular version="2" rows="8" columns="3">
<features rotate="false" islongtable="false" endhead="0" endfirsthead="0" endfoot="0" endlastfoot="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="false" width="" special="">
<column alignment="left" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="true" width="4.5cm" special="">
<column alignment="left" valignment="top" leftline="false" rightline="true" width="5.5cm" special="">
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Icon
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Mouse button 1
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="false" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Other button
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Cross
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Close the window
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="false" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Open a new window
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Up arrow
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Change to parent directory
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="false" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Show parent in a new window
\latex latex 

\backslash 
dag
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

House
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Change to home directory
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="false" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Show home in a new window
\latex latex 

\backslash 
dag
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Looping arrows
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Reread the directory contents
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="false" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Open a new window
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Magnifying glass
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Make icons bigger
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="false" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Make icons smaller
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

List
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Hide or show extra details
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="false" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Same
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Information
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Show ROX-Filer's help files
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="false" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Same
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
</lyxtabular>

\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
noindent
\backslash 
dag{}
\latex default 
If the 'New window on button 1' option is turned on then the default is
 to open a new window
\latex latex 
~
\latex default 
--- clicking with the other button reuses the same window instead.
\layout Standard

Dragging files to the Up or Home icons acts just like dragging them into
 the directory which the button leads to.
\layout Standard

The toolbar can also show the number of files in the directory, and information
 about the selection.
 This can be turned on or off in the Options box.
\layout Section

The menus
\layout Standard

You can open a menu by right clicking
\begin_float footnote 
\layout Standard

If the Use `RISC OS mouse bindings' option is on then use the middle button
 instead.
\end_float 
 over a pinboard, panel or filer window.
 In filer windows, you may also press `
\backslash 
' to open the menu.
 As a shortcut, you can open the File submenu directly by holding down the
 
\family typewriter 
Control
\family default 
 key when opening the menu.
 Here is a full description of each menu item:
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset  Tabular
<lyxtabular version="2" rows="6" columns="2">
<features rotate="false" islongtable="false" endhead="0" endfirsthead="0" endfoot="0" endlastfoot="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="false" width="" special="">
<column alignment="left" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="true" width="10cm" special="">
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Entry
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Action
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Select All
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Select every item in this window.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Clear Selection
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Unselect every item in this window.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Options...
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Configure ROX-Filer.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

New
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Create a new file or subdirectory inside this directory.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Xterm Here
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Open an xterm with its current directory set to this directory.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
</lyxtabular>

\end_inset 


\layout Subsection

The display menu
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset  Tabular
<lyxtabular version="2" rows="14" columns="2">
<features rotate="false" islongtable="false" endhead="0" endfirsthead="0" endfoot="0" endlastfoot="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="false" width="" special="">
<column alignment="left" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="true" width="10cm" special="">
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Entry
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Action
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Huge Icons
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Extra large icons (mainly useful with thumbnails, see below).
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Large Icons
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Each object in the directory is shown as a large icon with its name below.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Small Icons
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Items are drawn smaller than usual, allowing you to see more files at once.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Huge, With...
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

As for `Large, With...', but with extra large icons.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Large, With...
     
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Entries are displayed along with some extra details:
\series bold 
Summary
\series default 
 shows the file permissions, owner, group, size and modification time.
\series bold 
Sizes
\series default 
 shows just the size of each file (not directories).
\series bold 
Permissions
\series default 
 shows just the permissions and owner.
\series bold 
Type
\series default 
 shows the MIME type of each file.
\series bold 
Times
\series default 
 shows the times the file was last accessed, modifed and changed.
\latex latex 

\backslash 
dag
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Small, With...
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

As above, but with a smaller icon and all on one line.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Sort by Name
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Items are arranged by name.
 There is an option to make this case-sensitive.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Sort by Type
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Items are grouped by their types and then sorted by name within the groups.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Sort by Date
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Most recently modified first.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Sort by Size
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Largest first.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Show Hidden
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

If on, files beginning with a dot are shown, otherwise they are hidden.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Refresh 
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Rereads the contents of the directory and details of all the files in it.Use
 this if the display becomes out-of-date.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Create Thumbs 
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Tries to load every file as an image and use that image as the file's icon.
 Usefulif you have a directory full of photos and can't remember which is
 which!
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
</lyxtabular>

\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
noindent
\backslash 
dag
\backslash 
thinspace{} 
\latex default 
Reading a file's contents or listing a directory updates the 
\emph on 
access time
\emph default 
; modifying the contents of a file or the list of files in a directory updates
 the 
\emph on 
modification time
\emph default 
; changing a file's owner or permissions updates the 
\emph on 
change time
\emph default 
.
\layout Subsubsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec: Permissions}

\end_inset 

Permissions
\layout Standard

The permissions field, when shown, is made up of four groups of three flags.
 Each flag is displayed as a letter if it is on and a dash (--) if not.
 The first three characters show the permissions for the owner of the file,
 the second for other members of the file's group and the third for everyone
 else.
 Whichever group applies to the ROX-Filer process itself is shown underlined.
 The fourth group shows any special flags.
\layout Standard

The meanings of the characters are:
\layout Description

r Permission to read the contents of a file, or the names of files in a
 directory.
\layout Description

w Permission to alter the contents of a file, or change which names appear
 in a directory.
\layout Description

x Permission to run the file as a program, or refer to the files listed
 within the directory.
\layout Description

U This program executes with the 
\emph on 
effective user ID
\emph toggle 
 of its owner rather than the person who ran it.
\layout Description

G This program executes with the 
\emph on 
effective group ID
\emph toggle 
 of its group, regardless of who ran it.
\layout Description

T Entries in this directory can only be altered or removed by the people
 who own the files even if they have write permission on the directory itself.
\layout Standard

For example, `
\family typewriter 
\bar under 
rwx
\bar default 
,rwx,r-x/---
\family default 
' means that the owner of the file is the same as the effective user of
 ROX-Filer (basically, you own the file), you and members of the file's
 group have read, write and execute permission and other people have only
 read and execute permission.
 There are no special flags set.
\layout Standard

The rules which determine which permissions apply may vary slightly between
 operating systems, but a rough guide is:
\layout Itemize

If the
\emph on 
 effective user ID
\emph toggle 
 of the process is equal to the file's owner, then the owner permissions
 apply.
\layout Itemize

Otherwise, if the 
\emph on 
effective group ID
\emph toggle 
 of the process is equal to the file's group OR the file's group is one
 of the process's 
\emph on 
supplemental groups
\emph toggle 
 then the group permissions apply.
\layout Itemize

Otherwise, the `other' permissions apply.
 The 
\emph on 
real user ID
\emph toggle 
 and 
\emph on 
real group ID
\emph toggle 
 have no effect (except that a process may set its real IDs to its effective
 IDs).
\layout Subsection

The selection menu
\layout Standard

All of these work in the same way --- if you open the menu with some items
 selected then the operation applies to those items.
 If you open then menu over an item while there is no selection then that
 item is temporarily selected.
 If you choose one of these while there is no selection at all then the
 window goes into `target mode'; the operation happens to the next item
 you click on.
 Click on the window background, press Escape, or click with the right mouse
 button to cancel target mode.
 Target mode is mainly useful with the `Single click navigation' option
 and keys bound to the various menu entries.
\layout Standard

Note that individual applications may add extra menu items to the top of
 this submenu when you click over them --- see section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{AppDir}

\end_inset 

 for details.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset  Tabular
<lyxtabular version="2" rows="15" columns="2">
<features rotate="false" islongtable="false" endhead="0" endfirsthead="0" endfoot="0" endlastfoot="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="false" width="" special="">
<column alignment="left" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="true" width="10cm" special="">
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Entry
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Action
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Copy...
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Make a copy of this object.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Rename...
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Change the name used for this object, or move it between directories.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Link...
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Create a symbolic link to this name.
 
\latex latex 

\backslash 
dag
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Shift Open    
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Opens applications as directories, files as text/plain, mount pointsby mounting
 or unmounting them and symlinks by opening the directorycontaining the
 thing they point to.This is the same effect as clicking with Shift held
 down.
 The text of the menuentry changes to show which action will be performed.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Help
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Explain what kind of thing is selected.
 For applications, display the help files.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Info
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Display extra information about this object.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Set Run Action...
 
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Allows you to set the default program to use when opening files of this
 type.See section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec: RunAction}

\end_inset 

 for details.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Set Icon...
 
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

You can give each file or directory its own special icon using this feature
 --- simplydrag a suitable image onto the Set Icon dialog box.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Open (A)VFS
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Open the file as if it was a directory --- see section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec: vfs}

\end_inset 

.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Send To...
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Opens the `Send To' menu, allowing you to send the selected files to one
 of a list of applications.
 See section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{SendTo}

\end_inset 

.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Delete  
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Remove all the selected entries from the directory.Subdirectories will have
 their contents deleted first.Deleting symlinks only removes the link, not
 the thing it points to.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Disk Usage 
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Count the sizes of all the selected items.
 Directories also have theircontents counted.
 Symlinks count themselves, not the things they point to.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Permissions
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Allows you to change the permissions for the selected files.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Find
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Search for files by specifying various conditions --- see section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec: Searching}

\end_inset 

.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
</lyxtabular>

\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
noindent
\backslash 
dag
\backslash 
thinspace{}
\latex default 
A symbolic link stores the 
\emph on 
location
\emph default 
 of another file.
 Deleting the symlink doesn't affect the other file.
 Deleting the other file means that the symlink won't work.
 There are two types of symbolic link --- Relative and Absolute.
 An absolute link stores the path from the root directory to the target
 file (eg `/home/fred/MyFile').
 A relative path stores the path from the symlink to the target (eg `../fred/MyFil
e').
 If the target file is never going to move then you want an absolute link,
 but if the target may move (and the symlink will be moved with it) then
 you want a relative link.
\layout Subsection

The new menu
\layout Standard

Each entry in this submenu opens a savebox for creating a new file or directory.
 There are two standard entries; the others are the contents of your `
\family typewriter 
<Choices>/Templates
\family default 
' directory, if it exists.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset  Tabular
<lyxtabular version="2" rows="4" columns="2">
<features rotate="false" islongtable="false" endhead="0" endfirsthead="0" endfoot="0" endlastfoot="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="false" width="" special="">
<column alignment="left" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="true" width="9cm" special="">
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Entry
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Action
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Directory
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Create a new directory.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

File
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Create a blank file.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

<user entries>
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Copy a file from your Templates directory.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
</lyxtabular>

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

To add your own entries, create a new directory called `
\family typewriter 
~/Choices/Templates
\family default 
' (if you have the default CHOICESPATH) and put any files you want in there.
 Each file in the directory will appear on the menu and the box that appears
 will copy it.
 For example, you could create a blank HTML file:
\layout LyX-Code

<html>
\layout LyX-Code

  <head>
\layout LyX-Code

    <title>My Page</title>
\layout LyX-Code

  </head>
\layout LyX-Code

  <body>
\layout LyX-Code

    The contents.
\layout LyX-Code

  </body>
\layout LyX-Code

</html>
\layout Standard

Save this as `
\family typewriter 
index.html
\family default 
' inside the 
\family typewriter 
Templates
\family default 
 directory and you can easily create new HTML files.
 You can also save blank documents from various applications into here (eg,
 a blank spreadsheet, a blank letter, etc).
\layout Standard

Note that you cannot set keyboard shortcuts for these user-defined entries
 at present.
\layout Subsection

The window menu
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset  Tabular
<lyxtabular version="2" rows="11" columns="2">
<features rotate="false" islongtable="false" endhead="0" endfirsthead="0" endfoot="0" endlastfoot="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="false" width="" special="">
<column alignment="left" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="true" width="9cm" special="">
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Entry
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Action
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Parent, New Window
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Open a new window displaying this window's parent.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Parent, Same Window
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

As above, but reuse this window.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

New Window
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Open another window onto this directory.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Home Directory
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Change to your home directory.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Resize Window
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Set the window to a sensible size for its contents.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Close Window
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Close this window.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Enter Path...
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Open the path-entry box (see section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec: mini}

\end_inset 

).
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Shell Command...
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Open the shell command box (see section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec: mini}

\end_inset 

).
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Select If...
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Select just those files that match the given pattern
\latex latex 
~
\latex default 
--- see section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec: SelectIf}

\end_inset 

.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Show ROX-Filer Help
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Same as selecting ROX-Filer and choosing `Help' from the menu.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
</lyxtabular>

\end_inset 


\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{SendTo}

\end_inset 

The send to menu
\layout Standard

The `Send To' menu provides a quick way to send some files to an application.
 The filer scans all the `SendTo' directories in your CHOICESPATH and lists
 the contents on this menu.
 To change which applications appear here you should choose the `Customise'
 item from the bottom of the menu to create and open your own SendTo directory.
 Applications can be symlinked into this directory by dragging them in with
 Control and Shift held down.
\layout Standard

Opening the Send To menu via the main menu is rather slow, so it is normally
 opened by clicking the Menu mouse button over a file while holding the
 Shift key down.
\layout Section

The pinboard and panels
\layout Standard

Sections 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{run_pin}

\end_inset 

 and 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{run_pan}

\end_inset 

 explain how to turn the pinboard and panels on.
 Once on, you may drop items from filer windows onto the them to pin them
 up.
 Clicking on a pinned item acts just like clicking on it in a filer window.
 You can drag pinned icons just like normal icons and you can right-click
 on one to see the popup menu.
\layout Standard

Drag pinned icons with the middle mouse button to move them around (they
 snap to a grid on the pinboard).
 Changes to the pinboard and panel are automatically saved.
 Clicking on pinned icons with Control held down selects and unselects them.
 Click on the background to unselect them all.
\layout Standard

If the panel has so many icons that they can't all be shown at once then
 you can scroll it by dragging the blank area in the middle.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
IMPORTANT: 
\series default 
Pinning a file does 
\series bold 
not
\series default 
 copy it, it merely creates a shortcut to the original file.
 If you delete the file, then you've lost it! Removing a pinned file from
 its pinboard or panel only removes the link.
 This is different to most other filers...
\layout Subsection

The pinboard and panel menus
\layout Standard

These menus are both the same, and very simple:
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset  Tabular
<lyxtabular version="2" rows="6" columns="2">
<features rotate="false" islongtable="false" endhead="0" endfirsthead="0" endfoot="0" endlastfoot="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="false" width="" special="">
<column alignment="left" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="true" width="10cm" special="">
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Entry
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Action
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

ROX-Filer
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Show the filer's help, edit the options or open your home directory.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

File `file'
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Offers a smaller version of the filer's submenu of the same name.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Edit Item
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Change the name displayed under the icon, or the pathname the item points
 to.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Show Location
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Open a directory viewer showing where the file is stored.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Remove Item(s)
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Remove the selected items from the pinboard or panel.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
</lyxtabular>

\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
noindent 
\latex default 
If you are setting up the defaults for multiple users and you wish to create
 a `Home' icon that leads to each user's home directory then you should
 first create a new icon and then use `Edit Icon' to change the location
 to `~' and the name to `Home'.
\layout Standard

Note that individual applications may add extra menu items to the top of
 this menu when you click over them --- see section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{AppDir}

\end_inset 

 for details.
\layout Subsection

Panel applets
\layout Standard

ROX-Filer allows you to run small programs inside the panel --- such programs
 are called 
\emph on 
applets
\emph default 
.
 To run an applet, drag it onto the panel from a filer window and instead
 of the applet's icon being shown, the applet will run.
\layout Standard

To create your own applets (programmers only!):
\layout Enumerate

Create a directory for the applet (eg `
\family typewriter 
MyApplet
\family default 
').
\layout Enumerate

Put an icon called `
\family typewriter 
.DirIcon.png
\family default 
' inside it (so the directory appears with an icon).
\layout Enumerate

Make a `
\family typewriter 
Help
\family default 
' directory inside it for when the user chooses `Help' from the menu.
\layout Enumerate

Create an executable file called `
\family typewriter 
AppletRun
\family default 
'.
 This will be passed the XID of the panel socket window when the directory
 is dragged onto the panel.
 You can use this to create a GtkSocket widget.
 An example applet (written in python) is available at:
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code

http://rox.sourceforge.net/applets.php3
\end_deeper 
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec: vfs}

\end_inset 

Virtual file systems
\layout Standard

Some types of file can be represented as a directory.
 A typical example is a zip file, which contains an entire directory structure
 in compressed form.
 It is often useful to be able to open up such a file as if it was a real
 directory, and the VFS system allows you to do this.
\layout Standard

To use this feature you must have one or both of the following:
\layout Itemize

A system such as AVFS
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{AVFS}

\end_inset 

 which causes the kernel to support various Virtual File Systems directly.
 This is the best option since all programs will be able to access the contents
 of the VFS.
 You may require root access to install such a system, however, and it is
 not available on all platforms.
\layout Itemize

Support for the Midnight Commander VFS library compiled into ROX-Filer.
 This happens automatically when you compile ROX-Filer if it can find the
 VFS library --- this means having 
\family typewriter 
libvfs.so
\family default 
 (or 
\family typewriter 
libvfs.a
\family default 
) in a system library directory or in the directory in the environment variable
 
\family typewriter 
LD_LIBRARY_PATH
\family default 
.
 In this case, you will be able to view the directory structure and copy
 files out of it, but not change it.
 Support for this may be added later.
 Midnight Commander is part of the GNOME project.
\begin_deeper 
\layout Standard

When using libvfs, the menu structure is slightly different --- `Open AVFS'
 is replaced by the `Open VFS' submenu.
 This is simply a short-cut for using the path-entry box (explained below),
 so if you want to use a VFS not listed on the menu you can type in the
 path directly, eg:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
/home/fred/archive.zip#uzip/
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
noindent 
\latex default 
Don't forget the final slash!
\end_deeper 
\layout Subsection

Step by step example of adding VFS support
\layout Standard

This assumes that you have the Midnight Commander source in a directory
 called `mc'.
 You might need to replace 
\family typewriter 
libvfs.so 
\family default 
with 
\family typewriter 
libvfs.a
\family default 
.
\layout LyX-Code

$ cd mc
\layout LyX-Code

$ ./configure
\layout LyX-Code

$ cd vfs
\layout LyX-Code

$ make libvfs.so
\layout Itemize

If you have the root password then install the library in a system library
 directory as normal.
\layout Itemize

If not,
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code

$ mkdir ~/lib
\layout LyX-Code

$ cp libvfs.so ~/lib
\layout LyX-Code

$ cd ~/Apps/ROX-Filer
\layout Standard

Edit the 
\family typewriter 
AppRun
\family default 
 file to include this as the 
\emph on 
second
\emph toggle 
 line:
\layout LyX-Code

LD_LIBRARY_PATH=${HOME}/lib; export LD_LIBRARY_PATH
\layout Standard

This will ensure that ROX-Filer will look for the library in the new 
\family typewriter 
~/lib
\family default 
 directory.
 Finally, recompile:
\layout LyX-Code

$ ./AppRun --compile
\layout LyX-Code

...
\layout LyX-Code

checking for mc_stat in -lvfs...
 yes
\layout Standard

If you saw that line then it's worked! Well done!
\end_deeper 
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec: mini}

\end_inset 

The mini-buffer
\layout Standard

The mini-buffer is a white bar that appears along the bottom of the window
 and allows you to enter some text.
 Press Escape to get rid of it again.
 It behaves in different ways depending on how you invoked it:
\layout Subsection

The path-entry box
\layout Standard

This allows you to type in a path directly.
 As you type the display is updated to show the item entered visually.
 The main use is to find a file in a large directory quickly, but you can
 also use it for navigating between directories, or for selecting a full
 pathname from somewhere else and pasting it directly into the path-entry
 box.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset  Tabular
<lyxtabular version="2" rows="4" columns="2">
<features rotate="false" islongtable="false" endhead="0" endfirsthead="0" endfoot="0" endlastfoot="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="false" width="" special="">
<column alignment="left" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="true" width="8cm" special="">
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Key
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Action
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Return
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Open the currently selected item.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Tab
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Shell-style tab completion.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="false" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Up, Down
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="false" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Select the previous/next matching entry.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
</lyxtabular>

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

If you start entering a name beginning with a `.' then the `Show Hidden'
 feature is temporarily turned on so that the file can be shown.
\layout Standard

Tab completion tries to fill in as many characters for you as it can.
 For example, if there are two files in a directory called `save-mail-nov-1999'
 and `save-mail-dec-1999' then typing 'save' and pressing Tab will expand
 `save' to `save-mail-' and beep to indicate that the match is not complete.
 If you use tab completion on a directory and it is unique then the filer
 will automatically change into the directory.
 This behavior should be familiar to shell users.
\layout Subsubsection*

Example
\layout Standard

Let's say you want to locate the documentation for Wine in the directory
 /usr/doc (which is usually very large).
 Here's how you could do it:
\layout Enumerate

Open the minibuffer by choosing `Enter Path' from the Window menu.
 I usually bind this function to the slash (`/') key.
\layout Enumerate

Press CTRL-U to delete the existing contents --- this moves you to the root
 directory.
\layout Enumerate

Type `u
\latex latex 

\backslash 
Tab{}
\latex default 
do
\latex latex 

\backslash 
Tab{}
\latex default 
wi
\latex latex 

\backslash 
Tab{}
\latex default 
'.
 As you type, the cursor will move to the correct subdirectory.
 If it beeps when you press Tab then you need to supply more letters.
\layout Subsection

The shell command box
\layout Standard

This provides a quick way of entering shell commands if you don't want to
 open an xterm.
 If you don't know what shell commands are, skip this section!
\layout Standard

Just type in the command and press Return to execute it.
 Up and Down arrows move through previously entered commands.
 Tab does shell-style completion.
 Clicking on an item inserts its name into the minibuffer.
 If some items are selected then they are assigned to the positional parameters
 
\family typewriter 
$1
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
$2
\family default 
, etc.
\layout Standard

Opening the minibuffer with a selection adds 
\family typewriter 

\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

$@
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\family default 
 to the end of the command --- this expands to all the selected files.
 If there is no selection, but a file is under the cursor, the name of that
 file is inserted.
\layout Subsubsection*

Examples
\layout Standard

To untar a 
\family typewriter 
.tgz
\family default 
 archive:
\layout Enumerate

Open the minibuffer by choosing `Shell Command' from the Window menu.
 I usually bind this to the bang (`!') key.
\layout Enumerate

Type `
\family typewriter 
tar xzf
\family default 
' and click on the file.
 The leading space is automatically inserted.
\layout Enumerate

Press Return to execute it.
\layout Standard

To print all the selected files:
\layout Enumerate

Open the shell command minibuffer.
\layout Enumerate

Type 
\family typewriter 
`lpr
\family default 
' at the beginning of the line and press Return.
\layout Subsubsection*

Notes
\layout Itemize

Be careful; you will not be asked to confirm! If in doubt, start the command
 with `
\family typewriter 
echo
\family default 
' so that it will be displayed rather than executed.
\layout Itemize

`sh' is always used as the name of the shell to run (mainly because bash
 and csh treat positional parameters differently).
 However, PATH is searched to find it so you can still use another shell
 if you want by naming it sh and putting it in your path.
\layout Itemize

Commands execute in the background, so you can say:
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code

sleep 240; xmessage Time to go!
\end_deeper 
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec: SelectIf}

\end_inset 

The conditional selection box
\layout Standard

Use this if you want to automatically select all files in the directory
 which match a condition.
 The syntax for the conditions is given in section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec: Searching}

\end_inset 

.
 For example, to select all files larger than 5Mb:
\layout Enumerate

Open the Select If minibuffer.
\layout Enumerate

Type `
\family typewriter 
Size > 5Mb
\family default 
' and press Return.
\layout Standard

Just those files over 5 Mb in size will be selected.
 The expressions you can enter are in the same form as described in section
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec: Searching}

\end_inset 

, except that `
\family typewriter 
prune
\family default 
' has no effect since the contents of directories are never checked anyway.
\layout Section

Action windows
\layout Standard

Action windows are those boxes that appear while you're doing a Copy/Move/Link/e
tc operation.
 The status line at the top of the window shows the current directory or
 object that the window is processing.
 The scrolling area below is the log area --- it shows what has been done
 and may display questions here.
\layout Standard

At the bottom are four buttons and, sometimes, some options.
 The buttons work as follows:
\layout Description

Quiet will do simple operations without asking you to confirm each one.
 By turning this on and off during an operation you can use it like a pause
 button.
\layout Description

Yes answers yes to the question displayed in the log area.
\layout Description

No answers no to the question displayed in the log area.
\layout Description

Abort kills the current operation (if any) and closes the action window.
\layout Standard

You can control which actions get started automatically (without you having
 to click on Quiet at the start) from the Options window.
\layout Subsection

Action window options
\layout Standard

Some actions have options, which appear as option boxes at the bottom of
 the window.
 They are:
\layout Itemize

`Force' means that the filer won't treat non-writeable files as special.
 Normally, it confirms the deletion even if Quiet is pressed.
 Note that you still can't remove files from non-writeable directories because
 in that case you really don't have permission.
\layout Itemize

`Brief' prevents the filer logging a message every time it does something.
 Use this to speed things up if large numbers of messages are being logged.
\layout Itemize

`Recurse' means that doing something to a directory will also do the same
 thing to all its contents, and the contents of any subdirectories, and
 so on.
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec: Searching}

\end_inset 

Searching
\layout Standard

The Find feature looks through all the selected files and directories and
 any subdirectories (recursively) looking for items that match a particular
 expression.
\layout Standard

If you know the name of a file then just enter it in the `Expression:' box,
 enclosed in single quotes.
 For example, to find a file called `log' you would enter:
\layout LyX-Code

'log'
\layout Standard

Remember to use normal quotes, not double quotes (
\family typewriter 

\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 


\family default 
) or back-quotes (
\family typewriter 
`
\family default 
)!
\layout Standard

As the filer finds matching files they are added to the results list.
 Clicking on an entry in the list opens a viewer showing the file you clicked
 on.
 The filer will use the same window to view other results (so, if you want
 the results shown in separate windows you must explicitly create a new
 window from the Window menu).
\layout Subsection

Wildcards
\layout Standard

You can also put shell-style wildcard characters inside the quotes, for
 example:
\layout LyX-Code

'*.html'
\layout LyX-Code

'Report.*'
\layout LyX-Code

'Draft[1-5]'
\layout LyX-Code

'main.[ch]'
\layout Standard

Look at the 
\family typewriter 
glob(7)
\family default 
 manpage if you want to know more about shell wildcards.
\layout Standard

If the pattern you enter contains a slash (`/') character then the pattern
 is matched against the file's full path, otherwise only the leafname is
 used.
 That is, 
\family typewriter 
'*tmp*'
\family default 
 will find `tmp' and `tmpfile' but not `/tmp/file' --- 
\family typewriter 
'/*tmp*'
\family default 
 will find all three.
\layout Subsection

Simple tests
\layout Standard

As well as finding files by their names you can also find them by various
 other attributes.
 Note that `file' is used here to mean anything that can appear in the filesyste
m --- including directories, devices and so on.
\layout Standard


\latex latex 

\backslash 
smallskip
\backslash 
noindent 
\latex default 
These look at the type of the item being checked:
\layout Description

IsReg matches any regular (ie, normal) file.
\layout Description

IsLink matches symlinks.
\layout Description

IsDir matches directories.
\layout Description

IsChar matches character device files.
\layout Description

IsBlock matches block device files.
\layout Description

IsDev matches block or character device files.
\layout Description

IsPipe matches pipes.
\layout Description

IsSocket matches sockets.
\layout Standard

These look at the permissions set on the file --- see section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec: Permissions}

\end_inset 

.
\layout Description

IsSUID matches files which have the Set-UID bit set.
\layout Description

IsSGID matches files which have the Set-GID bit set.
\layout Description

IsSticky matches files with the sticky bit set.
\layout Description

IsReadable matches files which you can read from.
\layout Description

IsWriteable matches files which you can write to.
\layout Description

IsExecutable matches files which you can execute.
\layout Standard

And a couple of other useful ones:
\layout Description

IsEmpty finds empty files (ie, those whose length is 0 bytes).
\layout Description

IsMine finds files which you own.
\layout Subsection

Logic operators
\layout Standard

You can combine the above tests in various ways to perform more advanced
 searches.
 An expression is actually made up of a list of 
\emph on 
cases
\emph toggle 
, separated by commas.
 The filer will try to match each case in turn until one matches or there
 are no more cases left.
 For example, to search for files with several possible endings:
\layout LyX-Code

'*.gif', '*.htm', '*.html'
\layout Standard

Further, each of the cases is actually a list of conditions.
 The case only matches if all of its conditions are met.
 So, to find a directory called 
\family typewriter 
lib
\family default 
 or a regular file ending in 
\family typewriter 
.so
\family default 
:
\layout LyX-Code

IsDir 'lib', IsReg '*.so'
\layout Standard

You can negate a condition by putting a 
\family typewriter 
!
\family default 
 in front of it and you can use a sub-expression as a condition by bracketing
 it, like this:
\layout LyX-Code

! (IsDir, IsReg)
\layout LyX-Code

!IsDir !IsReg
\layout LyX-Code

Not isdir and not isreg
\layout Standard

All three do the same thing.
\layout Subsection

Comparisons
\layout Standard

You can also compare various values using the operators 
\family typewriter 
<, <=, =, !=, >, >=
\family default 
 (for less-than, less-than-or-equal-to, equal-to, not-equal-to, greater-than
 and greater-than-or-equal-to).
 When comparing times, you may find it helpful to use 
\family typewriter 
after 
\family default 
and 
\family typewriter 
before
\family default 
 instead of 
\family typewriter 
>
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
<
\family default 
 to make things clearer.
\layout Standard

The following are read from the file being checked and may be used for the
 values being compared:
\layout Description

atime The time that the file was last accessed.
\layout Description

ctime The time that the file's status was last changed.
\layout Description

mtime The time that the file's contents were last modified.
\layout Description

size The size of the file.
\layout Description

inode The file's inode (index) number.
\layout Description

nlinks The number of links to this file.
 That is, the number of directory entries which refer to this file.
 Note that symlinks don't count as references.
\layout Description

uid The User ID of the file.
\layout Description

gid The Group ID of the file.
\layout Description

blocks The number of disk blocks being used by the file.
\layout Standard

Times are measured as seconds since the Unix Epoch (00:00:00 UTC, January
 1, 1970).
 Sizes are in bytes.
 When specifying constants to compare these values with you may use various
 keywords to scale the value:
\layout Description

Byte(s) has no effect, but looks better.
\layout Description

Kb multiplies by 1024, so 2Kb is the same as 2048.
\layout Description

Mb multiplies by 
\begin_inset Formula \( 1024^{2} \)
\end_inset 

, ie 1024 Kb.
\layout Description

Sec(s) has no effect, but looks nice.
\layout Description

Min(s) multiplies by 60 to get minutes.
\layout Description

Hour(s),\SpecialChar ~
Day(s),\SpecialChar ~
Week(s),\SpecialChar ~
Year(s) likewise convert to the relevant unit.
\layout Description

Ago makes the time in the past relative to when the check is done.
\layout Description

Hence makes the time in the future.
\layout Description

Now is short for `
\family typewriter 
0 Secs Hence
\family default 
'.
\layout Standard

Some examples should make this all a bit clearer!
\layout LyX-Code

mtime after 1 day ago
\layout LyX-Code

size > 10 Mb
\layout LyX-Code

IsReg and nlinks > 1
\layout Standard

The first finds files modified within the last 24 hours.
 You could use 
\family typewriter 
>
\family default 
 instead of 
\family typewriter 
after,
\family default 
but it's not so clear what is meant.
 The second finds files larger than 10 Mb and the last finds regular files
 with more than one directory entry.
\layout Standard

Be careful though --- the filer doesn't check the context of the modifiers,
 so 
\family typewriter 
size > 1 day ago
\family default 
 is allowed, although it doesn't make much sense! Also, forgetting to use
 
\family typewriter 
ago
\family default 
 or 
\family typewriter 
hence
\family default 
 will cause odd effects (the time will be measured relative to the Epoch
 rather than the current time).
 Finally, don't use = with times --- 
\family typewriter 
atime = 1 day ago
\family default 
 looks for a file accessed 
\emph on 
exactly
\emph toggle 
 86400 seconds ago
\latex latex 
$
\backslash 
ldots$
\layout Subsection

Specials
\layout Description

System(Command) executes `Command' on the file.
 The test succeeds if the command returns an exit status of zero.
 A `%' character in `Command' is replaced by the full path of the file being
 checked.
 System is a very slow test to perform, so do it last if possible.
 For example, if you're looking for a .c file containing the word `main',
 do
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code

'*.c' system(grep -q main
\latex latex 
 "
\backslash 
thinspace{}
\latex default 
%
\latex latex 

\backslash 
thinspace{}"
\latex default 
)
\layout Standard

so that the grep is only performed for files ending in .c (as opposed to
 only checking that the file ends in .c if it contains the word `main').
\end_deeper 
\layout Description

Prune Always fails!
\begin_float footnote 
\layout Standard

Note that this is the opposite of the 
\noun on 
find(1)
\noun toggle 
 command.
\end_float 
 However, if it gets evaluated at all then it prevents the filer from checking
 inside the current directory.
 Remember the order in which the filer checks the expression!
\layout Standard

Examples:
\layout LyX-Code

'*.old' system(rm %)
\layout LyX-Code

'src' prune, '*.c'
\layout Standard

The first deletes each file ending in 
\family typewriter 
.old
\family default 
.
 The second looks for 
\family typewriter 
.c
\family default 
 files, but does not bother checking inside directories called 
\family typewriter 
src
\family default 
.
 The expression is evaluated like this:
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 216 180
file Prune.eps
height 2 2.5
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Section

Options
\layout Standard

You can configure various aspects of ROX-Filer from the Options box.
 Choose `Options...' from a filer window menu to open it.
 
\layout Standard

At the bottom of the window are four buttons:
\layout Description

Save puts all your choices into effect, and also saves them into your Choices
 directory for next time ROX-Filer is loaded.
 ROX-Filer will never save any preferences to disk unless you click on the
 `Save' button in the options window.
 Exactly where choices are loaded from and saved to is controlled by the
 
\family typewriter 
CHOICESPATH
\family default 
 environment variable --- see 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Choices}

\end_inset 

 for details.
\layout Description

OK puts your choices into effect without writing anything to disk.
\layout Description

Apply works like OK, but without closing the Options window.
\layout Description

Cancel closes the options box and forgets any changes you made.
\layout Standard

Many of the options in the Options window have tooltips --- hold the mouse
 pointer over the option to find out what it does.
\layout Subsection

Translation options
\layout Standard

You can choose which language the filer will display messages in from here.
 There are also two special choices:
\layout Description

None causes the untranslated English messages to be used;
\layout Description

From\SpecialChar ~
LANG will use the value of the LANG environment variable as the name
 of the file to load from ROX-Filer/Messages.
\layout Subsection

Display options
\layout Itemize

`Ignore case when sorting' treats upper and lower case letters as equivalent
 when sorting.
 If this is off then `Zoo' comes before `animal', for example.
\layout Itemize

`Ignore eXecutable bit for known extensions' means that when a file has
 a known extension (eg `.gif') the executable bit is ignored.
 This is useful if you have files on a Windows-type filesystem which are
 being shown as executable programs.
 However, it prevents a file such as `script.sh' from being treated as a
 program.
\layout Itemize

`Directories always come first' means that all directories are sorted and
 displayed at the top, then all the other items are sorted and displayed
 below.
 With this option off, directories are mixed in with the other files.
\layout Itemize

`Large wrap width' sets the maximum width for a file's name in `Large Icons'
 display mode before the text will wrap onto two lines.
 In Huge Icons mode, the wrap width is 50% larger than this value.
\layout Itemize

`Max Small Icons width' --- as above, but applies when the display is in
 `Small Icons' display mode.
\layout Standard

The remaining options provide the default settings for newly opened windows
 --- they correspond to choosing styles from the Display menu.
 Icon size is also used when switching off the details display from the
 toolbar.
\layout Subsection

Pinboard options
\layout Standard

If you are using the pinboard features (see section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{run_pin}

\end_inset 

) then you can choose how the text under each icon is displayed.
 If you have a fairly uniform background then you may like to choose `No
 background', which simply draws the text directly over the desktop background.
 However, users with more `noisy' backdrops may find such text hard to read;
 selecting `Rectangular background slab' will draw a solid rectangle behind
 the text to make it easier to read.
\layout Standard

You may also change the foreground and background colours used for the text
 by clicking on the colour slabs in the Options window.
\layout Itemize

`Keep icons within screen limits' prevents icons from going partly off the
 side of the screen.
\layout Itemize

`Icon grid step' controls how finely the icons may be positioned.
\layout Subsection

Panel options
\layout Standard

If you are using panels (see section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{run_pan}

\end_inset 

) then this section lets you choose which icons will have textual labels
 underneath them.
 You can have labels on all icons, on no icons, or on all icons except applicati
ons.
\layout Subsection

Action window options
\layout Standard

You can choose to start some operations automatically, without waiting for
 you to click on Quiet.
 Select each operation that you want to auto-start here.
 You can also set the default state for each of the options that appear
 inside action windows.
\layout Subsection

Toolbar options
\layout Itemize

`Unshade the tools you want:' allows you to set which tools should appear
 on the toolbar.
 Click on the buttons below to shade and unshade them --- shaded tools will
 not be shown on filer window toolbars.
\layout Itemize

`Toolbar type' allows you to choose what kind of toolbars you want.
 
\series bold 
None
\series default 
 means that windows will not have a toolbar, 
\series bold 
Normal
\series default 
 provides a small bar of icons, and 
\series bold 
Large
\series default 
 displays larger buttons, with textual labels.
\layout Itemize

`Show totals of items' shows the number of items displayed in a filer window,
 as well as the number of hidden items (if any) on the toolbar.
 When there's a selection, it shows the number of selected items and their
 combined size (excluding directories).
\layout Standard

See section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec: Toolbar}

\end_inset 

 for details.
\layout Subsection

Filer window options
\layout Itemize

`Automatically resize filer windows' can be used to control when windows
 are automatically resized:
\begin_deeper 
\layout Itemize

`...never' turns off auto-resizing.
 Windows must be resized manually.
\layout Itemize

`...when changing the display style' will resize the window automatically when
 you change the icon size or the type of details to be displayed.
\layout Itemize

`...always' causes the window to resize whenever it seems useful (that is,
 when changing to a different directory or when switching between display
 styles).
\end_deeper 
\layout Itemize

`Window size limit' sets the largest size (as a percentage of the screen
 size) that the auto-resizer will resize windows to.
\layout Itemize

`Unique windows' prevents you from having two windows showing the same directory.
 Opening a second view onto a directory closes the first.
\layout Standard

The next two options control what happens when you press tab in the path
 entry minibuffer:
\layout Itemize

`Beep if Tab-completion fails' --- beep if there is no match, or there are
 several possible completions, each starting differently.
\layout Itemize

`Beep if there are several matches' --- beep if there are several matches,
 even though some letters were added.
\layout Subsection

Drag-And-Drop options
\layout Itemize

ROX-Filer uses the standard XDND protocol for drag-and-drop.
 This protocol recommends that URIs should contain the hostname of the computer
 that the resource is on so that the program receiving the data can determine
 whether it can get the data directly or whether it must go via the X-server.
 However, many older programs (particularly GNOME applications) get confused
 by the hostname and fail to load the data correctly.
 If `Don't use hostnames' is on then the hostname part is omitted and ROX-Filer
 will work with these applications BUT you can't drag data to a program
 running on a different machine.
\layout Itemize

`Allow dragging to icons in filer windows' controls what happens when you
 drop files onto icons in filer windows.
 If on then drops onto directories will save the data inside the directory,
 while dropping onto programs will invoke the program on that data.
 If off then drops anywhere inside a filer window act like drops onto the
 window background --- that is, the data will be saved into the directory
 being displayed.
\layout Itemize

`Directories spring open' controls what happens when you hold a file over
 a directory while dragging it.
 If on, the directory will `spring open' after a short pause, allowing you
 to navigate to any directory during a drag.
 You can also hold the pointer over the Home and Up buttons on the toolbar
 for a similar effect.
 You need to have the previous option enabled for this to have any effect
 on files displayed in a directory.
\layout Itemize

`Spring delay' sets how long, in thousanths of a second, the filer will
 wait before spring opening a directory as described above.
 If the above option is turned off, then this has no effect.
\layout Subsection

Menu options
\layout Standard

The `Xterm here' program is the command used when you choose `Xterm here'
 from the menu.
 You can replace it with another command such as `gnome-terminal', `konsole',
 or anything else.
\layout Subsection

Mouse bindings
\layout Itemize

`New window on button 1' swaps the actions of the two non-menu buttons when
 opening directories.
 This is provided for people who are used to the RISC OS mouse bindings.
\layout Itemize

`Menu on button 2' swaps the actions of buttons 2 and 3 so that the middle
 button brings up the menus.
 This is provided for people who are used to the RISC OS mouse bindings.
\layout Itemize

`Single-click navigation' means that clicking on a file or directory will
 open it.
 If off, clicking on files selects them instead --- you must double click
 on a file to open it.
\layout Standard

As an alternative to using the options window to put menu on button-2, some
 people prefer to use the command `
\family typewriter 
xmodmap -e "pointer = 1 3 2"
\family default 
', which makes the right mouse button button-2 and the middle one button-3
 (this affects all programs, not just ROX-Filer).
\layout Section

Filetypes
\layout Standard

All files have a MIME type in the form `
\family typewriter 
text/plain
\family default 
'.
 Here, `
\family typewriter 
text
\family default 
' is the 
\emph on 
media type
\emph toggle 
 and `
\family typewriter 
plain
\family default 
' is the 
\emph on 
sub-type
\emph toggle 
.
 ROX-Filer uses a file's name to decide what its MIME type is, and then
 uses the MIME type to decide what icon to give it and what program to use
 when you open the file.
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec: RunAction}

\end_inset 

The run action box
\layout Standard

This box appears when you choose `Set Run Action...' from the File menu, and
 is used to set which application is loaded when you click on a file.
\layout Standard

For example, let's say you want to set things up so that opening a `.gif'
 file loads it into the Gimp.
 First, right-click over a gif image to open the menu and choose `Set Run
 Action...' from the File submenu.
 Then, you have a choice of two methods to set the run action:
\layout Subsubsection*

Setting the run action by drag-and-drop
\layout Standard

Drag the Gimp (from a filer window, a panel or the pinboard) onto the area
 marked `Drop a suitable application here'.
 From now on, clicking on a GIF file will load it into the Gimp.
\layout Subsubsection*

Setting the run action by entering a shell command
\layout Standard

Type:
\layout LyX-Code

gimp 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

$1
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

into the box labelled `Enter a shell command' and press Return.
 `
\family typewriter 
$1
\family default 
' will be replaced by the name of the file you click on when this command
 is used.
 As before, clicking on any GIF image will now load it into the Gimp.
\layout Subsubsection

Setting the default media-type handlers
\layout Standard


\emph toggle 
Whichever method you use to set the action you have the choice of setting
 the run action just for that type, or setting the default for all files
 with that media-type which don't already have a specific action.
 Since the Gimp can load many types of image, it makes sense to select the
 `Set default for all `image/<anything>'' option so you don't have to do
 it again for image/jpeg files and so on.
 However, this only affects types that don't already have a specific action
 (ie, those that would have brought up an error box if you tried to open
 them).
\layout Subsection

How filetypes are stored
\layout Standard

ROX-Filer uses three sub-directories in your Choices directory for filetypes:
\layout Description

MIME-info contains files which specify what the MIME types for files should
 be, based on their extentions.
 All the files in all the MIME-info directories are scanned when the filer
 loads.
 ROX-Filer comes with a file containing many such rules --- this is installed
 into the MIME-info directory by the rox-base package.
\begin_deeper 
\layout Standard

Many applications now come with a file called `something.mime'; copy these
 files into your MIME-info directory to make ROX-Filer automatically recognise
 the new extensions.
\end_deeper 
\layout Description

MIME-types contains symlinks, one for each MIME type, which point to programs
 that can handle files of that type.
 To set what program is run when you click on the file you should normally
 use the `Set Run Action' feature (see section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec: RunAction}

\end_inset 

).
 However, you can also set the actions manually --- for example, to make
 opening an HTML file load it into Netscape:
\begin_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

Find the Netscape application and go to `Link...' on the menu.
\layout Enumerate

Enter `text_html' as the name for the link and drag the icon from the Link
 box into the MIME-types directory.
\layout Standard

You can also put actual programs in here as well as links if you want to.
\end_deeper 
\layout Description

MIME-icons contains the images used to display each type of file.
 So the filer will try to display an HTML file using the icon `MIME-icons/text_h
tml.xpm'.
\layout Standard

In both MIME-types and MIME-icons directories you can also provide default
 actions/images for each media type.
 For example, if `text_html' isn't found then the filer will try simply
 using `text'.
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{AppDir}

\end_inset 

Application directories
\layout Standard

An application directory is a directory which can be run as an application.
 It contains all the resources of an application --- source code, binaries,
 documentation and so on.
 Keeping everything in one place make installation and uninstallation much
 easier for users.
 You can also keep multiple versions of a program by simply having several
 application directories.
 You may move and rename them as you please.
 Application directories are easier to use and install and are more secure
 too
\begin_float footnote 
\layout Standard

Because you can compile an application as a user and then simply copy it
 as root rather than having to run an install script you are free from the
 danger of running untrusted code as root.
 All you have to watch out for is setuid binaries.
\end_float 
.
\layout Standard

The following files are treated as special by ROX-Filer:
\layout Description

AppRun is executed when you click on the directory --- make sure it is executabl
e (use the Permissions box)!
\layout Description

.DirIcon.png is the image used to represent the directory (this works even
 if there is no AppRun).
\layout Description

Help is the directory to be opened when you choose `Help' from the File
 menu.
\layout Description

AppInfo.xml contains extra information about an application (see below).
\layout Description

AppIcon.xpm is used if 
\family typewriter 
.DirIcon.png
\family default 
 is missing (for backwards compatibility).
\layout Standard

Have a look at the ROX-Filer application directory for a full example.
\layout Standard

Note: For security reasons, an application directory must have the same
 owner as the AppRun file inside.
\layout Subsection

The AppInfo file
\layout Standard

`
\family typewriter 
AppInfo.xml
\family default 
' is an XML file with the following structure (any elements may be omitted,
 and the file itself is optional):
\layout LyX-Code

<?xml version="1.0"?>
\layout LyX-Code

<AppInfo>
\layout LyX-Code

  <Summary>A graphical file manager</Summary>
\layout LyX-Code

  <About>
\layout LyX-Code

    <Purpose>File manager</Purpose>
\layout LyX-Code

    <Version>1.1.3 (07-May-2001)</Version>
\layout LyX-Code

    <Authors>Thomas Leonard and others</Authors>
\layout LyX-Code

    <License>GNU General Public License</License>
\layout LyX-Code

    <Homepage>http://rox.sourceforge.net</Homepage>
\layout LyX-Code

  </About>
\layout LyX-Code

  <AppMenu>
\layout LyX-Code

    <Item label="Enable pinboard" option="-p=Default"/>
\layout LyX-Code

    <Item label="Disable pinboard" option="-p="/>
\layout LyX-Code

  </AppMenu>
\layout LyX-Code

</AppInfo>
\layout Description

Summary is displayed in a tooltip when the mouse is held over the application.
\layout Description

About contains a list of fields which are shown in the `File Info' box for
 the application (any element names may be used, but the above are suggested).
\layout Description

AppMenu is a list of extra menu items to display for the application.
 When one is chosen, 
\family typewriter 
AppRun
\family default 
 is called with 
\emph on 
option
\emph default 
 as its only argument.
\layout Section

Internationalisation
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec: LANG}

\end_inset 

Selecting a translation
\layout Standard

ROX-Filer is able to translate many of its messages, provided suitable translati
on files are provided: 
\layout Enumerate

Open the Options box from the menu, 
\layout Enumerate

Select a language from the menu at the top,
\layout Enumerate

Click on Save and restart the filer for the new setting to take full effect.
\layout Subsection

Creating a new translation
\layout Enumerate

Go into the 
\family typewriter 
src
\family default 
 directory and create the file `
\family typewriter 
messages.pot
\family default 
':
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code

$ cd ROX-Filer/src
\layout LyX-Code

$ make messages.pot
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

Copy the file into the `
\family typewriter 
po
\family default 
' subdirectory under 
\family typewriter 
src
\family default 
 as 
\begin_inset Formula \( \langle \hbox {name}\rangle \hbox {\tt .po} \)
\end_inset 

.
 Eg, if your language is referred to as `ml' (`my language'):
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code

$ cp messages.pot po/ml.po
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

Load the copy into a text editor.
\layout Enumerate

Fill in the translations, which are all blank to start with.
\layout Enumerate

Run the `
\family typewriter 
make-mo
\family default 
' script to create the binary file which ROX-Filer can use.
 You will need the GNU gettext package for this.
 If you don't have it then just send me the 
\family typewriter 
.po
\family default 
 file and I'll convert it for you.
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code

$ cd ROX-Filer/src/po
\layout LyX-Code

$ ./make-mo ml
\layout LyX-Code

Created file ../../Messages/ml.gmo OK
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

Edit `
\family typewriter 
ROX-Filer/Options.xml
\family default 
' so that your language is listed, restart the filer and select it from
 the Options box (see section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec: LANG}

\end_inset 

).
\layout Enumerate

Submit the 
\family typewriter 
.po
\family default 
 file to me so that I can include it in future releases of the filer.
\layout Subsection

Updating an existing translation
\layout Enumerate

Go into the directory containing the 
\family typewriter 
.po
\family default 
 files and run the 
\family typewriter 
update-po
\family default 
 script.
 This checks the source code for new and changed strings and updates all
 the translation files.
\begin_deeper 
\layout LyX-Code

$ cd ROX-Filer/src/po
\layout LyX-Code

$ ./update-po
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

Edit the file by hand as before, filling in the new blanks and updating
 out-of-date translations.
 Look out for `fuzzy' entries where 
\family typewriter 
update-po
\family default 
 has made a guess; check it's correct and remove the `fuzzy' line.
\layout Enumerate

Run 
\family typewriter 
make-mo
\family default 
 as before.
\layout Enumerate

Submit the updated file to me.
\layout Standard

See the 
\family typewriter 
gettext
\family default 
 info page for more instructions on creating a translation.
\layout Section

Hacking
\layout Standard

This is a quick start guide for people who want to modify the source code.
 If you make useful changes or fix bugs, please send patches to me or to
 the mailing list.
 Tell me which version you're using!
\layout Subsection

Compiling
\layout Standard

The first time you compile the program you need to do `
\family typewriter 
AppRun --compile
\family default 
', but in future you only need to run `
\family typewriter 
make
\family default 
' in the `
\family typewriter 
src
\family default 
' directory when you change the 
\family typewriter 
.c
\family default 
 and 
\family typewriter 
.h
\family default 
 files.
 You might want to run `
\family typewriter 
make depend
\family default 
' too.
\layout Subsection

Creating and applying patches
\layout Standard

When people make small modifications to the sources they will often distribute
 them as 
\emph on 
patch files
\emph toggle 
 --- usually on the mailing list.
 To apply a patch, go into the 'src' directory and run patch with the patch
 file.
 Then recompile, like this:
\layout LyX-Code

$ cd ROX-Filer/src
\layout LyX-Code

$ patch < patchfile
\layout LyX-Code

$ ../AppRun --compile
\layout Standard

You can remove the patch by simply repeating the above sequence --- patch
 will detect that the patch is already applied and offer to remove it.
\layout Standard

To create a patch you should first get the latest version of the filer from
 CVS (instructions on using CVS can be found on the web-site).
 Modify the program as you please.
 Create the patch using `
\family typewriter 
cvs diff
\family default 
' from the appropriate directory:
\layout LyX-Code

$ cvs diff -c > my_patch
\layout Standard

This creates a human- and machine-readable patch file.
 Submit this to the mailing list.
 The are many reasons for posting patches rather that the modified files:
\layout Itemize

They are smaller, and hence shouldn't bounce.
 They are also quicker to download for people with slow connections.
\layout Itemize

People can see what they're getting into before applying them!
\layout Itemize

Patches can (usually) be applied to slightly modified versions of the sources.
 This means that people can apply several patches without each new one overwriti
ng the others.
\layout Subsection

Autoconf
\layout Standard

Here's a quick explanation of the autoconf system in case you haven't used
 it before.
 See `info autoconf' for full details.
\layout Standard

There's a file called `configure.in' which contains various tests (`info
 autoconf').
 You run `autoconf' and it reads through the file and generates a shell
 script to perform the tests, saving it as `configure'.
 `configure' is normally distributed with the program because not everyone
 has autoconf.
\layout Standard

You then run `configure' (in fact, let the `AppRun' script do it because
 it passes it some arguments), which performs all the tests.
 It reads in `Makefile.in' and `config.h.in' and fills in the missing values
 with the test results to produce `Makefile' and `config.h'.
\layout Standard

You run `make', which creates .o files from the .c files and links to produce
 ROX-Filer.
\layout Subsection

Data-structures
\layout Standard

The diagram below shows some of the major structures found in the filer
 and the relationships between them.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 595 344
file Structs.eps
width 3 100
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

To summarise, each window has its own 
\series bold 
FilerWindow
\series default 
 structure.
 This structure has pointers to a 
\series bold 
Collection
\series default 
 (which is the widget which actually displays the files) and to a 
\series bold 
Directory
\series default 
, which is used to cache the directory contents.
 Both 
\series bold 
Collection
\series default 
 and 
\series bold 
Directory
\series default 
 have pointers to (the same) 
\series bold 
DirItem
\series default 
s, each of which corresponds to one filesystem object.
 Several 
\series bold 
FilerWindow
\series default 
s may share the same 
\series bold 
Directory
\series default 
.
 While scanning is in progress the 
\series bold 
Directory
\series default 
 keeps a list of the new items it has found (
\emph on 
new_items
\emph toggle 
) and the items which have changed in some way (
\emph on 
up_items
\emph toggle 
).
 It periodically notifies the filer window of the changes-so-far by calling
 all the functions in the 
\emph on 
users
\emph toggle 
 list (use 
\emph on 
attach()
\emph toggle 
 and 
\emph on 
detach()
\emph toggle 
 to add and remove functions to or from the list).
\layout Bibliography
\bibitem {ROX}


\emph on 
The ROX desktop
\emph toggle 
, <http://rox.sourceforge.net>
\layout Bibliography
\bibitem {RISC OS}


\emph on 
RISC OS
\emph default 
, <http://www.riscos.com>
\layout Bibliography
\bibitem {GTK+}


\emph on 
GTK+ Toolkit
\emph toggle 
, <http://www.gtk.org>
\layout Bibliography
\bibitem {GNOME}


\emph on 
The GNOME desktop
\emph toggle 
, <http://www.gnome.org>
\layout Bibliography
\bibitem {DND}


\emph on 
The Drag and Drop protocol
\emph toggle 
, <http://www.newplanetsoftware.com/xdnd/>
\layout Bibliography
\bibitem {XDS}


\emph on 
The X Direct Save protocol
\emph toggle 
, <http://www.newplanetsoftware.com/xds/>
\layout Bibliography
\bibitem {Choices}


\emph on 
The ROX Choices system
\emph toggle 
, <http://rox.sourceforge.net/choices.php3>
\layout Bibliography
\bibitem {enlightenment}


\emph on 
Enlightenment,
\emph toggle 
 <http://www.enlightenment.org>
\layout Bibliography
\bibitem {AVFS}


\emph on 
AVFS - A Virtual File System, <
\emph default 
http://sourceforge.net/projects/avf/>
\the_end
